Added NUsight Overview content (#51)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/02-system/03-tools/01-nusight.mdx

chapter: Tools
title: NUsight
description: NUsight and how to setup your environment to run it.
slug: /system/tools/nusight
---

> The NUsight visualisation system is a web-based visualiser created in-house for the NUbots team. It provides real-time display of information of messages passed inside the NUClear robotics framework. The data that can be visualised in NUsight may come from real hardware or simulated hardware. NUsight contains multiple tabs with different debugging capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The NUsight visualisation tool is a web-based visualiser created in-house for the NUbots team, to aid in building and debugging our systems. It provides real-time display of information from other systems using [NUClear networking](/system/foundations/nuclear). The data visualised in NUsight may come from real hardware or simulated hardware. The NUsight interface contains multiple tools in various "tabs" with different debugging capabilities.
```

| Localisation | Previews the robot's pose. The visualisation data can come from a real robot or simulated hardware.                                                 |
| Chart        | Visualises the stream of data being passed to the robots' sensors.                                                                                  |
| Vision       | Previews the images from the cameras of the robots giving you a robot's eye view.                                                                   |
| Visual Mesh  | Visualises the object detection algorithm with the overlay mesh on top of an image.                                                                 |

The 'Select Robots' button in the top right corner enables the display of specific real or simulated robots. This affects all the tabs in NUsight.

## Dashboard

![NUsight with Dashboard selected. Top half of the screen is a birds-eye view of the field. Contains symbols representing robots, balls, walk paths and kick paths. The bottom half has text specifying the state of each robot.](./images/dashboard-main.png)

The Dashboard gives an overview of the state of the robots on the field.

> The 'Flip Orientation' button in the top left hand corder flips the playing field to display the mirror image of the previous view of the playing field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 'Flip Orientation' button in the top left hand corner flips the playing field to display the mirror image of the previous view of the playing field.
```

#### Robot Status Display

![Robot Status box. Contains text specifying the various states of the robot.](./images/nusight-robot-status.png)

This area displays the internal status of a robot, for each robot connected to NUsight. It shows the robot's name, connection status, battery level and the internal state of the robot.

- Mode - Displays the current stage of the game
- Phase - Displays the current phase of the current game mode
- Behavior - Displays what the robot is currently doing
- Penalty - Displays the penalty incurred by the robot, if any
- Walk Command - Displays the forward/backward velocity, left/right velocity and rotation rate of the robot, in that order.
- Camera, Ball and Goal Icons
  - Flash Orange - a new packet is received
  - Red Outline box - Indicates that a long time has passed since the last packet of data was received.
  - Greyed Out - Inactive

## Localisation

![Localisation tab. Shows a 3D scene with a soccer field and NUgus robots.](./images/localisation-main.png)

> The localisation view shows a 3D model of any connected robots with their position and orientation on the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The localisation view shows a 3D model of any connected robots with their position and orientation on the field. It is interactive and can be used with the following commands:
```

|   <kbd>s</kbd>    | Move backward                                                  |
|   <kbd>a</kbd>    | Strafe left                                                    |
|   <kbd>d</kbd>    | Strafe right                                                   |
|       Space       | Switch between Free Camera, First Person or Third Persion view |
| Right mouse click | In first or third person, switch between robots                |

## Chart

![Chart tab. Shows a coordinate plane with multiple graphs plotted, each with different colours.](./images/chart-main.png)

The chart view shows a coordinate plane with a variable graphed against time. Multiple graphs can be overlayed on top of each other.

| Feature               | Description                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Line Chart/2D Scatter | Switch between a line chart or a scatter plot to represent the data on the chart. Currently the scatter plot is unsupported.      |

> | Right Panel           | Select which variable from which robot is to be plotted on the chart.                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Right Panel           | Select specific datapoints from specific robots to be plotted on the chart. Also allows for changing the color of a line on the chart. |
```
